Databases available in OpenLexicon
==================================

This folder and its subfolders are part of the
[OpenLexicon](http://chrplr.github.io/openlexicon) and
[Lexique](http://www.lexique.org) projects.

The `.tsv` and `.csv` files are plain text files that can be easily
important in to R, MATLAB or Python. To open them with Excel, check out
<https://rievent.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360000029172-FAQ-How-do-I-open-a-tsv-file-in-Excel->

If you want to contribute, adding or correcting some databases, please
contact `christophe@pallier.org` and `boris.new@gmail.com`

Lexique382
----------

*Lexique382* est une base de données lexicales du français qui fournit
pour \~140000 mots du français: les représentations orthographiques et
phonémiques, les lemmes associés, la syllabation, la catégorie
grammaticale, le genre et le nombre, les fréquences dans un corpus de
livres et dans un corpus de sous-titres de filems, etc.
([README](Lexique382/README-Lexique.md))

Frantext
--------

*Frantext* fournit la liste de tous les types orthographiques obtenus
après tokenization du sous-corpus de Frantext utilisé pour calculer les
fréquences "livres"\" de Lexique
([README](Frantext/README-Frantext.md)).

French Lexicon Project
----------------------

The *French Lexicon Project* (FLP) was inspired from the *English
Lexicon Project* (Balota et al. 2007). It provides visual lexical
decision time for about 39000 French words and as many pseudowords. The
full data represents 1942000 reactions times from 975 participants.
([README](FrenchLexiconProject/README-FrenchLexiconProject.md))

Megalex
-------

*Megalex* provides visual and auditory lexical decision times and
accuracy rates several thousands of words: Visual lexical decision data
are available for 28466 French words and the same number of pseudowords,
and auditory lexical decision data are available for 17876 French words
and the same number of pseudowords.
([README](Megalex/README-Megalex.md))

Chronolex
---------

*Chronolex* provides naming times, lexical decision times and
progressive demasking scores on most monosyllabic monomorphemic French
(about 1500 items). Thirty-seven participants were tested in the naming
task, 35 additionnal participants in the lexical decision task and 33
additionnal participants were tested in the progressive demasking task.
([README](Chronolex/README-Chronolex.md))

Brulex
------

*Brulex* donne, pour environ 36.000 mots de la langue française,
l'orthographe, la prononciation, la classe grammaticale, le genre, le
nombre et la fréquence d'usage. Il contient également d'autres
informations utiles à la sélection de matériel expérimental (notamment,
point d'unicité, comptage des voisins lexicaux, patrons phonologiques,
fréquence moyenne des digrammes). ([README](Brulex/README-Brulex.md))

Gougenheim100
-------------

*Gougenheim100* présente, pour 1064 mots, leur fréquence et leur
répartition (nombre de textes dans lesquels ils apparaissent). Le corpus
sur lequel, il est basé est un corpus de langue oral basé sur un
ensembles d'entretiens avec 275 personnes. C'est donc non seulement un
corpus de langue orale mais aussi de langue produite. Le corpus original
comprend 163 textes, 312.135 mots et 7.995 lemmes différents
([README](Gougenheim100/README-Gougenheim.md))

Chacqfam
--------

CHACQFAM est une base de données renseignant l'âge d'acquisition estimé
et la fa miliarité pour 1225 mots monosyllabiques et bisyllabiques du
Français ([README](chacqfam/README-Chacqfam.md))

SUBTLEXus
---------

*SUBTLEXus* provides two frequency measures based on American movies
subtitles (51 million words in total): a) The frequency per million
words, called SUBTLEXWF (word form frequency) b) The percentage of films
in which a word occurs, called SUBTLEXCD (contextual diversity)
([README](SUBTLEXus/README-SUBTLEXus.md))
